The Project Gutenberg eBook of Bearly Reasonable, by W. C. Tuttle

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Bearly Reasonable

Author: W. C. Tuttle

Release Date: August 9, 2021 [eBook #66024]

Language: English

Produced by: Roger Frank and Sue Clark

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BEARLY REASONABLE ***


[Illustration]

                          Bearly Reasonable

                           by W. C. Tuttle

  Author of “Magpie, Diplomat,” and “Sixteen to One on Friday,” etc.


“Ike,” sez Magpie Simpkins, pointin’ down th’ trail, “th’ feller what
said, ‘Th’ worst is yet to come,’ must ’a’ meant that outfit comin’
our way.”

I takes uh good look and agrees. In th’ lead is Ricky Henderson, on
his calico bronc, and behind him is three figgers on burrows. Th’
leadin’ one looks like uh cross between uh Holy Roller proselyte and
uh fence picket. Th’ legs of th’ critter is bent back at th’ knees to
keep its feet off th’ ground, an th’ rest of its body ’pears to have
been soaked in starch before it seasoned.

It’s wearin’ uh swaller-tailed coat, buttoned at th’ top, makin’ it
swell in th’ breeze like th’ wings of uh turkey-buzzard, and th’
peaked, side-whiskered face which bobs at th’ top is crowned with uh
hard hat. It is also wearin’ black-rimmed specs, and enough black
ribbon floats from th’ top to furnish mournin’ fer uh wake.

Th’ next in line is uh fe-male person, and uh glance shows that she
ain’t built fer neither speed nor comfort. Th’ pore li’l burrow she’s
ridin’ is wig-waggin’ uh distress signal with its ears, and threatens
to cave in at th’ knees in uh short time.

Th’ next in line is one uh them human carbuncles. He’s so danged fat
that his clothes ache, and he has to lift his yaller eyebrows plumb to
th’ top of his bald head to git his eyes open. When I first sees his
face I’m inclined to git th’ skin of uh aig to put on it and draw it
to uh head.

Behind this caravan loiters five burros and they’re so danged loaded
down with plunder that all yuh can see is their ears. While me and
Magpie stands on th’ steps of our cabin, at th’ Silver Threads mine,
this aggregation peerades to uh standstill before us, and that
she-packin’ burro hee-haws with relief.

“Here we are,” states Ricky, turnin’ in his saddle and grinnin’ at his
followers.

“Thank goodness!” snorts th’ fe-male. “I feel that I’m jolted to a
shadow. Shall we dismount?”

“Ricky, yuh might make us used to yore friends, and tell us why you
terminates th’ peerade at this point,” sez Magpie.

“This person,” sez Ricky, pointin’ at th’ lean critter, “is Perfessor
Phinney. Th’ lady is his wife, and this here robust party is Doctor
Doolittle. They’re from th’ East—” and then he turns to them:

“Ladies and gentlemen, this slender party with th’ hairy upper lip is
Magpie Simpkins, and th’ bow-legged party beside him is Ike Harper,
his mate. Now that yo’re properly introduced I’ll pilgrim back. _Au
revoir._”

“Yuh will—in uh hearse,” snaps Magpie. “Come back here, yuh blamed
coyote and explain why yuh shirks yore duty. What’s th’ great idea?”

“My duty is done,” states Ricky. “These here persons desire to hire
competent persons so I brings’ em up here. Every man in Piperock holds
up their hands and swears that they ain’t competent, so what could I
do? You and Ike shore must be. I reckon th’ perfessor can tell yuh
what he wants, Magpie. I hates to deprive yuh of my company, but I’m
uh right busy man.”

“No depravity, Ricky,” sez Magpie. “Run right along home.”

And then he turns to th’ outfit. Th’ three of ’em are off their
mounts, and busy rubbin’ th’ circulation back into their legs. I feels
that th’ perfessor has some chore, ’cause he has quite uh strip uh
country to hear from.

“I—er—shall try and explain in a few words,” sez th’ perfessor,
peekin’ at us over th’ tops of his specs. “I am up here to settle an
argument between myself and Professor Manning. Isn’t it queer what an
argument between friends will bring forth?”

“Uh-huh,” agrees Magpie. “She shore is. I’ve knowed six good men to
git killed on th’ spot, four more in th’ pen, and dozens who have been
crippled fer life over friendly arguments.”

“How unique!” exclaims th’ perfessor’s heavier half. “How unique.”

“Yes’m,” agrees Magpie, “two of ’em was, but th’ rest was jist common
ordinary arguments.”

“As I was—er—saying,” continues th’ perfessor, “I am up here to settle
a friendly argument.”

“Th’ question is?” asks Magpie.

“Do rattlesnakes and prairie-dogs live together in harmony, and will a
female grizzly recognize its own offspring after it has been away
from, it for twenty-four hours.”

“That’s uh —— of uh reason fer comin’ way up here!” snorts Magpie.

“Why didn’t yuh write to me? I’d ’a’ told yuh.”

“That’s what I said,” cuts in th’ human carbuncle. “When you told me
about it I——”

“Doctor,” pipes th’ perfessor, “there’s no use arguing with me. This
is a serious question. Professor Manning’s theory is wrong, and I am
going to prove it.”

“Yuh can’t prove nothin’ by uh rattler,” objects Magpie. “Also, yuh
got uh sweet chore on yore hands when yuh tries to git uh female
grizzly to let yuh take its cub and——”

“Can’t I believe my own eyes?” wails th’ ol’ pelican. “Can’t I see
these things?”

“My husband, being a scientist, is very observing,” states Mrs.
Perfessor.

“Also set in his ways,” states th’ doc, lightin’ one uh them dude
cigarets, which smells like th’ place where uh circus has jist moved
away. “All I hope is that I get some good shooting.”

“If th’ perfessor interviews uh fe-male grizzly and fambly, yuh shore
stand uh good chance uh gittin’ yore wish,” sez I. “Unpack them
long-sufferin’ jackasses and make yoreself to home. Th’ hills is
yours.”

“Unpack?” asks th’ perfessor. “Do you mean to remove the impedimenta
from the backs of our beasts of burden?”

“Bein’ funny is a art,” states Magpie, “but art ain’t appreciated here
in th’ hills. Jist take th’ plunder off them canaries, and settle
down.”

“But, my man, that’s your duty. That’s part of what I’m paying you
for.”

Magpie looks foolish like at me and then back at th’ perfessor. Th’
doc lifts his eyebrows to th’ eaves of his face and manages to wiggle
one eyelid until uh person would almost admit it was uh wink.

“Perfessor,” sez Magpie, “I ain’t yore man. I never seen yuh before,
and I ain’t worryin’ about yuh in th’ future. I never hired out to
yuh, and I ain’t acquainted with yore rollin’ stock to th’ extent that
I wishes to remove their loads. Who wished yuh on to us anyway and
why?”

Th’ perfessor removes his hard hat and squints at Magpie.

“The—er—person who brought us up here informed me that you were
perfectly competent. Was we misinformed?”

“Misinformed? No, ol’-timer, you was lied to. Sabe?”

“Th’ fact of th’ matter is this,” states th’ doc. “Professor Phinney
wants to engage the services of you and Mister Harper. He is willing
to pay you a reasonable amount for your services, and is also able to
offer a substantial bonus in case you can help him prove or disprove
his contention. Am I right, Professor?”

“Yeaus,” drawls th’ ol’ coot.

He’s uh funny ol’ rooster. He allus sez “Yeaus” instead uh “Uh-huh.” I
don’t reckon he ever figgered that th’ Lord only give him one set uh
vocal cords, or else he didn’t care if he did wear ’em out early in
life. Every danged word he orates sounds like th’ letters had been
carved out uh granite, and he was afraid to let ’em all fall to oncet
fer fear some of ’em might git scratched or busted.

“Yuh might explain th’ bonus part,” sez Magpie.

“You see,” sez th’ perfessor, “for my own personal satisfaction I
would observe the home life of the rattlesnake and prairie-dog, but
the most important is the test of the maternal instinct in the grizzly
bear.

“I shall expect you to furnish me with the opportunity to carry out
this experiment to a satisfactory conclusion, and in case you can do
so to my satisfaction, I am willing to remunerate you to the extent of
two hundred dollars each. Of course I am prepared to pay you each five
dollars per day. Do you feel competent to assist me?”

                  *       *       *       *       *

Magpie sticks his thumbs into his belt, shifts his weight on to one
leg, and squints at them burros.

“Ike,” sez he, “remove th’—er—imped— imped—th’ packs off them beasts
uh burden.”

And then to th’ perfessor:

“Competent is my middle name. When it comes to th’ maternal instinct
of grizzly bears I feels as competent as uh hungry coyote in uh herd
uh sick sheep. Ike is a authority on snakes and gophers, so between us
I reckon you’ll git enough material to last yuh a lifetime. What do
yuh know about grizzlies?”

“Nothing at all,” sez th’ perfessor. “I fear that I wouldn’t know one
if I were to meet it. I’ll admit it was a foolish argument, when
neither Professor Manning nor myself are at all familiar with natural
history, but it is things like this that lend zest to life. Am I
right, Mister Simpson?”

“Simpkins,” sez Magpie. “Uh-huh, I reckon it does. Yessir, I’d shore
agree that it might. But, Perfessor, if I was in yore place, not bein’
familiar with grizzlies, I’d shore side-step anythin’ I met that
wasn’t familiar. There’s one redeemin’ feature about uh grizzly—he
don’t stop to argue. One or two uh them square-heads would put enough
zest in uh man’s life to keep him supplied fer right smart of uh
time.”

Well, that shore was some outfit. Them packs looks like uh travelin’
banquet. There’s three foldin’ bunks, sleepin’ bags, rubber bathtubs
and most everything that uh man can’t use in th’ hills. Also there is
enough fancy grub to feed uh roundup. I manages to git them things off
th’ jacks, and Magpie comes over and looks ’em over.

“My Gawd,” sez he. “This is th’ limit, hammered to uh sharp point.
What’ll we do with ’em, Ike?”

“Yore uh competent,” sez I. “Don’t ask me what to do, Magpie Simpson.
Is th’ perfessor’s squaw goin’ to git supper?”

“She is not, and yuh might call me by my right name. Th’ perfessor sez
that he was informed by Mister Henderson that Mister Harper is th’
best culinary artist in th’ State. Uh culinary artist is uh polite
name fer uh bull cook, Ike.”

“Sounds re-fined, anyway,” I agrees. “But some uh these day’s I’m
goin’ to git my meat-hooks on Ricky Henderson, and there’s goin’ to be
sorrow in th’ Henderson tribe. Culinary artist ——! Can’t th’ doctor
cook?”

“Th’ doctor can’t do nothin’, Ike. He informs me that th’ one ambition
in life is to hit somethin’ with his shotgun. Sez he never had and
never expects to, but he’s game to keep on tryin’.”

Pretty soon th’ doc comes down from th’ cabin, and sets down on one of
th’ packs. He dusts th’ end of uh cigaret on his hand, and grins at me
and Magpie.

“Some outfit, eh?” he sez. “What do yuh think of it?”

“Well,” sez Magpie, “I knowed uh feller oncet what got hung fer sayin’
what he thought, so with this one short remark I’ll close—awful!”

“Exactly,” agrees th’ doc, explodin’ uh cloud uh smoke that would
asphyxiate uh gila monster. “I quite agrees with you. You see th’
professor has a lot more money than any ordinary professor ought to
have and if he wishes to spend it on a proposition like this it’s none
of our funeral.”

“Th’ first part of yore oration sounds sensible,” sez Magpie, “but th’
last line ain’t exactly true. Knowin’ th’ natcheral disposition of uh
fe-male grizzly, I’d say that it might be our funeral. Jist because
we’re merely accessories to th’ fact don’t affect th’ gray matter in
th’ skull of uh she-grizzly.

“All men looks alike to her. Mebby she’d shy at th’ perfessor, but I’m
bettin’ that uh rear view of th’ ol’ boy goin’ up uh tree or doin’ th’
vanishin’ act over uh hill might fool uh mad grizzly into thinkin’ she
was chasin’ uh real, honest-to-grandma man. Uh course she’d find out
her mistake, but by that time it’s too late to rectify it. No
self-respectin’ rattler’d bite him, either, but yuh got to figger that
nobody ever met uh self-respectin’ rattler. No, sir, I reckon we got
to close-herd th’ perfessor.”

“I’d be there with my shotgun,” grins th’ doc. “Mebby I could hit uh
bear with it. That would be some satisfaction.”

“And it wouldn’t bother th’ bear,” sez I. “If yuh feels like tryin’
out that two-tunneled spray-weapon on uh bear, take this advice: Try
one barrel on th’ bear and th’ other on yoreself. Mebby it’s jist uh
li’l out uh place fer uh stranger to tell uh feller how to pass out uh
this here vale uh tears, but uh scatter-gun don’t compare with uh
grizzly when it comes to messy-lookin’ corpses. Them animiles shore do
admire to take yuh apart.”

I cooked supper that night. One thing in my favor was th’ fact that
th’ perfessor’s wife is too hungry and tired to make any suggestions.
I ain’t no dog-gone French cook, but I shore hates to have uh fe-male
person tell me how to cook beans. We worries through supper without no
casualties, and after we gits through, Mrs. Per-fessor goes to bed on
my bunk, and th’ rest of us sets out in front of th’ cabin and smokes
uh while.

“My man,” sez th’ perfessor to Magpie, “it is my desire to investigate
the grizzly theory tomorrow morning. I suppose you are prepared to
guide me to the lair of a fairly good specimen?”

“Shore,” sez Magpie. “Uh course I’ll have to look over my field notes
uh while before I can locate edzactly th’ specimen yuh needs. Uh
course yuh wants uh grizzly with uh grizzly offspring.”

“Yeaus,” drawls th’ ol’ pelican. “Yeaus, certainly. Quite naturally a
grizzly would have a grizzly offspring.”

“Natcherally,” agrees Magpie. “But yuh often finds ’em with black or
brown cubs. Yuh see, Perfessor, uh she-grizzly is uh motherly ol’
thing, and when she finds uh female black or brown bear which don’t
treat their li’l ones properly she jist natcherally adopts ’em.”

“Quite commendable,” nods th’ perfessor. “I must make a note of it.
Such information is quite valuable. But don’t the other bears object
to losing the custody of their offsprings?”

“Quite useless,” drawls Magpie. “As I remarked before, uh grizzly
won’t argue.”

“I have a feeling that this trip is going to furnish some material for
the scientists to ponder over,” laughs th’ doc, gittin’ up and
throwin’ away his camel-hair cigaret. “I must see that my shotgun is
in good working order.”

“Did yuh ever shoot any fool-hens?” I asks.

Th’ doc grins at me in uh wise sort of uh way and replies:

“Mister Harper, I may be a poor shot, but I’m not that much of a
tenderfoot, so don’t try that old joke on me, please.”

Most of ’em won’t bite on th’ fool-hen stunt, fer th’ simple reason
that there ain’t no joke about fool-hens. Now, if yuh spoke about
snow-snakes they’d stay all Winter to git uh specimen.

It wa’n’t edzactly what you’d call chivalry that prompts us to give up
our cabin to our employers that night. When uh two hundred and fifty
pound fe-male occupies yore three by six bunk, and fills th’ air with
snores which resembles th’ grunts of uh hungry bear trying to coax uh
fat grub out of uh rotten stump, it’s jist human nature to grab uh
blanket and move out in th’ brush. Th’ doc crawls into his
sleepin’-bag alongside th’ cabin, but me and Magpie holes up down near
th’ crick.

                  *       *       *       *       *

That night I wonders out-loud, in Magpie’s hearin’, what are we goin’
to do? Also I mentions in my oration that any man what ain’t got no
more sense than to tie up with uh rattle-headed pardner, not
mentionin’ any names, but givin’ uh fair description, ought to die
early in life in self-defense.

“Field book!” I howls at th’ Big Dipper. “He’s got uh field book what
shows th’ dwellin’-place of suitable female grizzlies. Them records
will show jist which said grizzly has bears by adoption and which has
’em by maternal instinct. I’m a expert on sidewinders and gophers, eh?
Shore. All my life I’ve laid on my belly and observed th’ home life uh
said whistlin’ diggers and crippled crawlers. I’ve allus crawled in
th’ best society uh Prairie Dog town. Accordin’ to th’ latest reports
I’m livin’ in uh dug-out and cultivatin’ fangs. Pretty soon I’m due to
coil up and bite somebody.”

Magpie don’t say uh word all th’ time I’m reflectin’ out loud, but
after I rolls up in my blanket and drowses off to sleep he grabs me by
th’ shoulder and hisses in my ear—

“Ike, I’ve got it!”

“Keep it,” sez I. “I don’t care if we are pardners, Magpie, I don’t
wish to share it with yuh. I know you’ve had it fer uh long time, ol’
trapper, but I never mentioned it to anybody. If it hurts yuh worse
than usual, I’d advise uh cold compress on yore dome.”

“‘Mighty’ Jones,” he yells joyful like. “By cripes. I can see it all!”

Sometimes when uh feller gits to ravin’ thataway he sez things about
folks that he don’t like, so I don’t comment on him mentionin’ Mighty
Jones.

Uh course his right name ain’t Mighty. He’s uh pore li’l runty person,
with corn-colored hair, and whiskers which makes him resemble uh
mountain goat gone to seed. One day he gits into a argument with uh
whale of uh jasper named “Buzzard” Bell. Buzzard is big enough to tie
Jones in uh bow-knot, and he grins down at Jones and informs him of
th’ fact. Jones takes off his coat, throws it on th’ floor, jumps on
it with both boots, spits on his hands and yells:

“I’m small but I’m Gawd A’mighty Jones!” That’s how he gits th’
cognomen.

He’s livin’ up in uh li’l cabin at th’ forks of Plenty Stone crick,
and he ain’t noways friendly nor confidential. He’s plumb afraid that
somebody will jump his alleged copper claim, which don’t assay enough
per ton to plate uh twenty-two cartridge shell.

“She’s goin’ to work out to uh gnat’s eyebrow, Ike,” states Magpie
when I don’t seem uh heap concerned over his former joyful
declaration.

“Yuh might tell uh man yore troubles,” sez I.

Magpie sets up in his blankets and rolls uh cigaret.

“Yessir,” sez he, after th’ smoke is goin’, “that’s th’
solution—partly. Ike, we could use Mighty Jones’s bear fer this here
scientific experiment.”

“Uh-huh,” I agrees. “We shore could, only fer several reasons.
Mighty’s animile happens to be uh brown bear and, bein’ as its name is
Abe, it don’t stand to reason that its got any maternal instinct, much
less uh cub. And what is uh heap more to th’ point, Magpie: Mighty
would perforate anybody what bothered that brute. If Mighty had about
twice as much sense as he’s got he’d be half-witted, and I argues that
uh fool and uh shotgun is dangerous. Them’s my sentiments, Magpie. Th’
whole thing is crazy. Yore all crazy, Magpie. Th’ perfessor is loco,
th’ doc is likewise afflicted and Mrs. Perfessor is showin’ symptoms.
You been crazy fer years and years, Magpie, and I’m gittin’ suspicious
uh myself. Let’s put some cyanide in their coffee in th’ morning, and
then you and me will go down in Death Valley and dig fer coconuts,
Magpie. And besides we ain’t got no cub fer Abie.”

“Objextions all overruled, Ike. In th’ first place, Perfessor Phinney
nor any of them wouldn’t know uh brown bear from uh grizzly, and in
th’ second place, we’ll go down cautious like and rent Mighty’s bear.”

“What’ll we do fer uh cub?”

“——!” snorts Magpie. “We’re sharin’ fifty-fifty in this here ain’t we?
Well, I done furnished my part. I got th’ mother grizzly didn’t I?
Well, you git th’ cub. Sabe?”

“Loan me yore field notes on cubs, will yuh? I’m uh snake specialist
and——”

Didn’t Magpie tell th’ perfessor he had one? Shore did. That’s what
makes Magpie’s conduct so danged inconsistent. He didn’t have no right
to git sore about it. Anyway, it’s showin’ danged little knowledge uh
social etikette when uh feller hits yuh on th’ head with uh rock as
big as yore fist—especially when yore in bed. Uh course I returns it
in th’ proper spirit, but my feelin’s is soarin’ and I shoots high.

Did yuh ever hear half uh dozen long-eared, flea-bitten jackasses
split th’ stillness of th’ night with their melodjus voices? Don’t
tell me that animiles like that don’t talk to each other. They shore
must or they couldn’t know jist when to cut loose all to oncet
thataway, and make th’ short hair on th’ back uh yore neck crawl right
over and tickle yuh under th’ chin.

That herd of Rocky Mountain canaries cuts loose right over our
recumbent forms and scares delirious delight out of our feelin’s fer
uh minute. They jist orates one short, “Ha-a-aaw!” and then quits
cold.

We stands erect in our blankets and sez things to them jacks, but they
jist nods in th’ gloom, and wiggles their ears. They sorta surrounds
us, and won’t go away. Not bein’ in need uh any more music, we gits
peevish like.

“Let’s go over across th’ crick,” sez Magpie. “Them blasted animile
Carusos is too friendly, and it’s uh cinch they’ll stay on this side
of th’ crick.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

We ambles down toward th’ crick, still wrapped in our blankets, like
uh pair uh Injuns, when all to oncet we gits another sensation.

“Whang! Zee-e-e-e! Whang! Zee-e-e-e!”

Th’ gentle evenin’ is shattered. It’s bad enough to have yore
ear-drums shattered, but when each shatter is followed by uh handful
uh bird-shot, which “skees” and “zees” across yore form and fills yore
eyes with lint from yore blanket, it’s time to investigate. Magpie is
near th’ crick bank when it happens, and I looks up jist in time to
see Magpie disappear over th’ bank, and uh splash informs me that he
is in th’ wet.

“My ——!” I hears uh voice opine. “I believe I hit them. I wish I had
some buckshot, but I haven’t and——”

“Bung! Zee-e-e-e!” goes that scatter-gun ag’in, only this time it’s
both barrels. I hears Magpie spit out uh personal cuss word and splash
back into th’ crick.

“Heaven is my home,” states uh voice in th’ gloom, which I recognizes
as bein’ that of th’ doctor, and I hears him rastlin’ around in th’
brush.

“Where’s that blamed gun, anyway?” he whines. “I never shot two loads
to once before, and after this——”

“Cut—cut—cut it out, yuh blamed maverick!” quavers Magpie, and I sees
his arms wavin’ over th’ bank of th’ crick in uh signal uh distress.

“Gracious! Did I hit you? Did it go past you?” yells th’ doc.

Magpie raises his string-bean carcass on th’ bank, shakes th’ water
out of his hair, and whoops:

“What went past? Yuh blasted, overfed, red-faced porkypine. What do
yuh reckon yo’re tryin’ to do?”

“Calm yourself,” advises th’ doc. “If it hadn’t been for me you all
might be dead. What do you think of that?”

“Fine,” sez Magpie. “I’m like Patrick Henry thataway. If I can’t have
liberty I’ll take uh li’l death. When fellers like you are pesticatin’
around uh feller’s liberty is shore restricted. What was yuh tryin’ to
kill, anyway?”

“What made that noise?” hedges th’ doc. “What made it, eh? I heard it,
and comes out to investigate. I saw what I took to be two skulking
animals, so I gave each one a load of shot. One of them jumped into
the creek, but I gave it both barrels as it went out the other side.
This gun kicked so hard that it was impossible for me to determine
what my execution was. I hope it was deadly.”

“If I ever has uh hand in it, Doc, it shore will,” sez Magpie. “Better
go on back to bed.”

Th’ doc ambles back to his bed, and we recovers Magpie’s blanket. It
jist missed uh watery grave.

“Gosh,” sez Magpie. “Missed with both barrels at ninety feet. Let’s go
over in th’ brush and sleep. Mebby them jacks will wail ag’in, and yuh
can’t expect uh feller to miss every time with uh scatter-gun.”

“Was it uh female?” asks uh husky voice behind us, and there stands
th’ perfessor in uh white nightie, on one foot, while he industriously
picks cactus out of th’ other. He looks like th’ ghost of some hy-iu
white crane.

“What you heard, Perfessor,” sez Magpie, “was uh fool! Better git back
to bed before he mistakes yuh fer uh white owl.”

“Yeaus. Exactly,” agrees th’ ol’ coot, and he limps back. Magpie is uh
bit damp, but th’ night is warm, so he states that he’d rather sleep
thataway than to take uh chance on goin’ near th’ cabin.

We sleeps some late th’ next mornin’, and th’ first thing we hears is
that blamed shotgun. Somewhere up th’ gulch th’ doc is tearin’ holes
in th’ solitude. We ambles up to th’ cabin, and finds Mrs. Perfessor
settin’ on th’ steps. Honest to grandma, she’s uh sight. That person
wa’n’t no beautiful vi’let last night, but this mornin’ she don’t
qualify a-tall.

“_Klahowya_,” sez Magpie. “Did yuh sleep well, ma’am?”

“Oh, there you are,” sez she, ignorin’ Magpie’s salutation, and
lookin’ at me. “When do I get some hot water?”

“Drink or laundry?” I asks.

She bristles up as much as uh fat woman like her can bristle after uh
night on uh real hard bunk, and snorts—

“Do you expect me to wash in cold water?”

“Ma’am,” sez I, “when it comes to expectin’ things I pass up wimmen.
Not havin’ known me only uh few hours, and most uh them at night, I
don’t see why my expectations should interest yuh so much. In this
country uh person don’t git so awful dirty jist sleepin’, so we figger
that anybody what is so much of uh dude as to want to wash in th’
mornin’ can do it in cold water.”

“I want some hot water and I want it immediately!” she howls, and
waddles into th’ cabin.

“I’d say that th’ perfessor is more to be pitied than censured,” sez
Magpie. “After listenin’ to her, and observin’ her face and figger, I
can’t believe th’ perfessor’s statement that he’s ignorant uh natural
history. She’s shore uh bear, Ike, and I’d——”

“Is that water ready for my ablution?” sez Mrs. Perfessor, stickin’
her head out of th’ door.

“Right away,” sez I, goin’ over and pickin’ up some sticks.

I don’t aim to invade her boodwah. Our stove ain’t five feet from my
bunk, so I makes our li’l fire outside. Magpie follers me over with uh
can uh water and puts it on th’ fire.

“Cripes!” sez he. “Ain’t uh woman uh queer proposition, Ike? She said
at first that she wants to wash her face and——”

“She said she wanted to wash. She didn’t designate her face, Magpie.”

“That’s right. What is a ablution, Ike?”

“How do I know,” I snorts. “I ain’t no ladies’ maid, Magpie. If yuh
wanted to know about rattlesnakes I’d be up on that.”

I gives her th’ can uh hot water and she operates in th’ cabin, so we
don’t know yet what she done. I jist gits breakfast on th’ fire when
th’ doc shows up. He does uh double shuffle in th’ trail when he gits
in sight and seems tickled all over about somethin’.

“You haven’t got breakfast ready yet have you?” he whoops, as he leans
his shotgun ag’in th’ cabin. “Heaven is my home! At last I have hit
something.”

He digs down in th’ pockets of his huntin’ coat, and dumps uh pile uh
birds on th’ ground.

“Blue grouse,” he pronounces. “I found a fine flock of them up th’
gulch. Can we have them for breakfast, Mister Harper?”

“How perfectly lovely,” gurgles Mrs. Perfessor. “I adore wild game.
This will be a breakfast to remember. It must be wonderful to live in
a country like this where you can go out and kill your meals.”

“Yeaus,” agrees th’ perfessor. “I’ll have mine grilled, if you don’t
mind.”

I looks at Magpie, who is rollin’ uh cigaret and lookin’ at th’
ground, and sez to him—

“How would you like yore’s, Mister Simpkins?”

“Never eat meat fer breakfast,” he states. “I’ll jist take some mush
and bacon. Anyway, there ain’t more’n enough fer our guests.”

“I can go and git some more,” sez th’ happy sawbones. “Greatest sport
I ever had. They’re not a bit wild. I’m going to enjoy this meal
because it’s the first one I ever furnished in this way.”

It was th’ only one of its kind I ever cooked, that’s uh cinch. They
ate ’em, but there was’n’t much joy over that meal. Th’ Doc rastles
one of ’em around fer uh while and gits up enough appetite to eat
flap-jacks. When he finishes he lights one uh them burn-easy cigarets
and opines to me that blue grouse is overrated as uh delicacy. I ain’t
got th’ heart to disagree with him, and Magpie jist nods and turns
away to light uh cigaret. Moose birds ain’t edzactly what you’d call
“sweet and tender.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

“Are yuh ready to go with me?” asks Magpie, when we’re alone ag’in.

“Go where?”

“Down to see Mighty Jones.”

“It ain’t goin’ to take two of us to bring that tame ol’ bear back
here, Magpie, and besides I’m goin’ to be uh heap busy tryin’ to
locate uh offspring fer it.”

“We ain’t goin’ to bring it back here, Ike. Ain’t yuh got no
imagination a-tall? Th’ perfessor orates that he desires uh wild
grizzly, and it’s uh cinch he ain’t ignorant enough to accept uh
domestic bear. We got to produce this here animile in his native
haunts to make th’ play come right.”

All th’ time we’re pilgrimin’ down to Mighty’s wickiup he’s ponderin’
on uh place to stake out that bear.

“Better git th’ cub and it’s mama before yuh rents uh bungaloo fer
’em,” I advises. “I feels that there’s liable to be many uh slip from
th’ grizzly to th’ perfessor. I needs that two hundred, Magpie, but
when it comes to gittin’ into trouble, Ike Harper is neutral.”

This here li’l ol’ goat-headed Jones party sticks his head out of his
cabin door and stares at me and Magpie. He don’t look friendly a-tall.

“We come down to git yer bear,” sez Magpie. “In th’ interests uh
science I asks yuh to——”

Mighty must uh had that shotgun in his hand behind th’ door, ’cause
Magpie only gits uh runnin’ start on his oration when we’re gazin’
down uh two-barreled muzzle-loader.

“Git!” sez Mighty.

Magpie looks right past Mighty’s off ear and yells—

“Don’t hit him with that club!”

I reckon Mighty must uh been excited to fall fer uh trick as ol’ as
that, but he did. He whirls that ol’ gun around, an th’ next thing he
knowed, Magpie has him pinned to th’ floor and I’m removin’ the caps
off that gun.

“Now,” sez Magpie, “mebby you’ll listen to reason.”

“I will like ——!” snaps Mighty. “I’ll listen to what Magpie Simpkins
has to say, but I’ll be teetotally danged if I’ll agree that it’s
reason.”

“We comes on uh peaceful mission and meets uh armed force,” states
Magpie. “If yuh wants visitors to carry uh flag uh truce, why don’t
yuh advertise th’ fact, Mighty?”

“I minds my own business,” snorts Mighty. “Go ahead and talk, and I’ll
listen if it chokes me.”

Magpie sets on Mighty’s floatin’ ribs, and tells him our troubles.

“But my bear ain’t no fe-male and I ain’t got no cub,” protests
Mighty. “Anyway, ol’ Abe is sick. I reckon he’s gittin’ too blamed
ol’. Seems like he don’t harbor nothin’ but uh bellyache, Magpie. I
been dopin’ th’ ol’ sinner fer weeks to keep him on his feet.
Dog-gone, he’s th’ only friend I got left. I tries to give him uh dose
uh castor ile yesterday, and he tore my shirt off and swallers th’
whole bottle. I don’t reckon it’ll do him any good thataway do you?”

“If yuh knowed jist what part uh his anatomy it’s reposin’ in yuh
might kick him and loosen th’ cork,” I suggests, but Mighty shakes his
head.

“It can’t be done, Ike. Th’ cork was broke off short.”

“Where is he now?” asks Magpie, risin’ from Mighty’s carcass, and
settin’ on th’ bunk.

Mighty rubs th’ creases out of his skin, and rolls uh smoke.

“He’s up on th’ hill back uh my stable, I reckon. Danged ol’ toothless
walloper’s done formed uh friendship with uh badger. Can yuh beat it?
Them two sets up there on uh rock in th’ sun and snoozes all day.”

“Heavenly dove!” whoops Magpie, grab-bin’ Mighty by th’ wishbone. “Do
yuh suppose they’re up there now?”

“I reckon,” gasps Mighty. “Leggo my neck, dog-gone yuh. What’s there
to git excited about?”

“Do yuh reckon we could ketch that badger?” askes Magpie.

“I reckon yuh could. He ain’t uh bit wild. I pretty nigh puts my hands
on him yesterday when I goes up to try and feed Abe some liver pills.
I leaves some fer th’ badger but I don’t reckon he took ’em.”

“Tell yuh what I’ll do,” sez Magpie. “If you’ll rent us yore bear and
help us take him over to that ol’ tunnel uh Big Foot Smith’s and let
us use him fer uh few days I’ll give yuh ten dollars. We’ll guarantee
not to hurt th’ ol’ feller none.”

“That’s reasonable, Magpie, but I don’t sabe what yuh wants th’ badger
fer.”

“If we can pass ol’ Abe off as uh fe-male grizzly, I don’t reckon
we’ll have much trouble in passin’ that badger off fer its cub.
Dog-gone it, they look uh heap like uh li’l bear, at that, Mighty.”

“How yuh goin’ to ketch him?” I asks.

“That’s yore chore, Ike. Git uh rope and make good.”

Th’ Harper tribe allus was noted fer their gameness. I gits Mighty’s
rope and ambles up back of th’ stable. I sees th’ bear. He’s sunnin’
out there on uh ledge uh rock, and don’t pay no attention to me
a-tall. I reckon he’s got troubles of his own which keeps him
occupied. I sneaks around behind him, and there I sees Mister Badger.
He’s shore uh whopper, and he’s stretched out on th’ rock with his
head turned th’ other way.

I gits th’ loop to swingin’ right, and braces my feet. I ain’t what
you’d call a expert with uh rope. In fact I’m of th’ garden variety
when it comes to swingin’ th’ rope, but I’m game. I gives th’ rope uh
last whirl and lets her go. Did I git that badger? I’d tell uh man I
did! Also, I gits th’ bear.

Uh bear and uh badger may be good pals when they’re separated, but
friendship ceases when yuh pulls ’em together in th’ loop of uh rope.
Also they makes it uncomfortable fer th’ party on th’ other end of th’
rope.

When I stops at th’ cabin I ain’t wearin’ no pants, but I got uh’
strangle holt on that ol’ badger. Pore ol’ Abie gits loose about
half-way home, and he shore moves spry-like to th’ top of th’ cabin,
where he orates his displeasure and shows symptoms uh liver trouble.
They helps me hog-tie that badger, and then Mighty complains uh heap
about his pet.

“Ike, yuh ought to be careful about Abe,” sez he. “There wa’n’t no
sense in gittin’ him all excited thataway. Mebby he’ll have uh
relapse, and I ain’t got uh liver pill left. He’s uh sick animile.”

“Th’ —— he is!” sez I. “He tore my pants off, and almost clears th’
cabin in one jump, so I don’t reckon he’s so danged bad off. We got
female folks at our house, so I reckon yuh better loan me uh pair uh
pants to go home in, Mighty.”

He ain’t got nothin’ but uh pair uh overalls, which don’t meet by six
inches at th’ waist and lingers jist below th’ knee, but I puts ’em
on. We ties th’ badger to uh pole, which me and Magpie packs, and
Mighty leads Abe and his bellyache with uh rope. Big Foot’s prospect
ain’t been worked fer so long that it’s all grown up ag’in and looks
like uh natcheral cave.

“Here’s th’ idea,” states Magpie. “We’ll put th’ bear and badger in
th’ ol’ tunnel. Then we’ll git th’ perfessor and his outfit to come
over and see us separate them. We’ll keep that alleged cub over to th’
cabin long enough to satisfy th’ perfessor. Sabe?”

“You got another think comin’ if you thinks that Abe and that ol’
badger is goin’ to hibernate peaceful like in that hole while yu goes
over to head th’ peerade,” objects Mighty. “Since Ike stirred ’em up
thataway, Abe ain’t acted noways friendly toward th’ badger, and said
badger ain’t got no love fer nobody after ridin’ upside down on uh
pole fer two miles. How am I goin’ to know how Abie’s bellyache is,
all this time. I can’t stay with him.”

“Do you think I’m goin’ to lose all that money jist because there
ain’t no love lost between two dumb brutes?” snorts Magpie. “Big Foot
must uh been afraid that somebody was goin’ to invade his ol’ prospect
when he built that door at th’ entrance, but he shore simplified
things fer us. We’ll stick Abe and his imitation cub inside an’ block
th’ door. By th’ time we git back they’ll be friendly ag’in.”

“Abie’s bellyache—” begins Mighty, but Magpie shuts him up.

“Gosh A’mighty, you gives me uh pain! No wonder that pore bear’s got
uh stummick ache. You’d give uh wooden Injun th’ pip, Mighty. Mebby if
yuh quits givin’ him all them patent medicines he’d be uh heap better
bear and last longer. That stuff’s causin’ all his hair to come out.
If yuh don’t quit he won’t even make uh decent rug.”

Abie goes in plumb willin’ but the badger objects. He tries to squeeze
out, but twistin’ uh stick in his hide sorta disgusts him and he
retires. Mighty pilgrims off home, and me and Magpie goes back to our
cabin.

“Ike,” orates Magpie, “this is uh cinch. That badger resembles uh li’l
bear uh heap, don’t yuh know it? Also, Abie is so shy on hair that
nobody could prove whether he’s black, brown or gray. Let’s be glad.”

“Lets be glad uh li’l later on,” I suggests. “I’m strong on this here
gladsome stuff, Magpie, but this here idea uh countin’ yore scientific
experiments before they’re done experimentin’ is uh heap like lightin’
yore last match to see if it’s uh good one before yuh goes to th’
trouble uh makin’ uh cigaret.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

Th’ perfessor is sunnin’ hisself by th’ cabin when we gits back, and
th’ doc is fussin’ with uh pho-tygraft apparatus. They welcomes us
real heartily, and th’ perfessor is uh heap excited and pleased to
know that we’re ready fer th’ experiment.

“I hope I can get some good action in a bear picture,” states th’ doc.
“It will help in provin’ th’ perfessor’s experiments.”

That was some pilgrimage. We strings out in single file, with Magpie
in th’ lead and th’ perfessor next. We places th’ fe-male next in
line, allowin’ considerable space between her and th’ doc, in case she
should rear up and fall over backwards on some of th’ steep pitches.
Also, fer safety sake I packs th’ doc’s shotgun. When we reaches the
alleged bear den we finds Mighty settin’ at th’ door.

“Abe’s ailin’ ag’in,” sez he, solemn like, lookin’ th’ outfit over.

“Who is Abe?” asks th’ doc.

“His pardner,” states Magpie, winkin’ hard at Mighty. “He seems to
have pains in his stummick most of th’ time.”

“Appendicitis,” pronounces th’ doc. “May need an operation.”

“Doctor,” sez th’ perfessor, “this is no time to talk of operations.
Prepare your camera and try and picture the proceedings.” And then he
asks Magpie—

“Are you sure that the mother and young are in the cave?”

“Pore ol’ Abe comes to th’ door and—” complains Mighty, but th’ doc
pats him on th’ shoulder and sez:

“Never mind. Just as soon as possible I will diagnose his case. I may
have to remove his appendix.”

“I don’t reckon that’s what ails him a-tall,” states Mighty. “Yuh see
he’s been used to havin’ his meat cut up fer him but, bein’ as I ain’t
no Daniel, I didn’t care to center th’ den, so I jist throws in uh
saddle uh venison to him and slams th’ door. Mebby he overeats.”

“Unique way to treat a patient, isn’t it, Doctor?” puffs Mrs.
Perfessor, from where she rests her bulk on uh log.

“It is,” agrees th’ doc, reprovin’ like. “You should have given him
some broth.”

“Never had none,” sez Mighty. “Patent medicines don’t help him none,
anyway. Say, Magpie, I got to worryin’ about Abe and his roommate
gittin’ in uh fight so I comes over after you left and tied th’ cub to
uh timber in there.”

That made it plumb easy. All we has to do is go inside, lead th’ cub
out and shut th’ door. Ol’ Abe pokes his head out and wails uh few
stanzas, and th’ doc snaps his pitcher machine.

“Wonderful!” whoops th’ perfessor. “You men have earned that bonus
right now. You have shown yourselves so competent that I am willing to
chance the rest of it. Do you suppose your friend here, with the sick
partner, would accept a small remuneration for his services?”

“Without uh doubt,” sez Mighty, before Magpie has uh chance to open
his mouth and th’ perfessor slips Mighty a yaller-backed bill.

“Thanks, ol’-timer,” sez Mighty. “That’ll buy me one uh them things
what yuh grind meat up in. Yuh see, Abe’s teeth ain’t what they used
to be, and when he eats meat he gits them pains and he’s liable to
bite or claw ——, I begs yore pardon, ma’am, out uh me.”

“Not appendicitis symptoms,” states th’ doc. “Does he have
hallucinations?”

“No,” sez Mighty. “Leastwise I don’t reckon he has. He’s showed
symptoms uh St. Vitus dance and th’ bellyache and has moulted most of
his hair, but I reckon that ol’ age sneakin’ up on him makes him
thataway more’n anythin’ else.”

“How old is he?” asks Mrs. Perfessor.

“Don’t know edzactly, ma’am. I killed his mother when he was comin’ uh
year ol’ but I don’t remember what year that was. He’s had uh lot uh
sickness, ma’am, and most all th’ hair’s rubbed off his belly, which
uh course makes him look older than he really is. Sabe?”

Mebby she don’t sabe, but anyway, she don’t ask no more questions. She
takes uh sixty hoss-power look at Mighty, and ambles right off up th’
trail. Th’ doc looks sorta surprised at Mighty, but th’ perfessor
don’t pay no attention. He’s busy gloatin’ over that badger.

“Gracious,” sez he. “The young of the grizzly surely do mature young.
Doctor, just look at those claws. Do they lose that stripe on the back
like a young deer loses it’s spots?”

“Uh-huh,” sez Magpie. “All bears is striped when they’re born, except
black ones and they’re purple”.

Me and Magpie has to pack that badger all th’ way over to our cabin.
We tries to lead it, but that wasn’t a success. It starts all right,
but th’ perfessor is in th’ road, figgerin’ in his note-book. That
rope gits familiar with his long legs, and he’s some strung out when
we gits ’em separated, but he don’t mind. He sets there on th’ ground
and figgers in his note-book, while we untangles th’ rope off his
feet, and never pays no attention a-tall.

When we gits home we ties th’ badger to uh tree. Me and Magpie figgers
that our labors is over fer uh while, so we aims to take life easy fer
uh spell. Th’ doc is busy shootin’ up th’ tin cans around camp, Mrs.
Perfessor is croshayin’ what looks like uh pair uh ear-muffs fer uh
blacktail deer, and th’ perfessor is studyin’ th’ actions of uh peeved
badger, so me and Magpie goes down on th’ crick, where we got some
bedrock stripped.

We’re busy pannin’ out some dirt about an hour later when we hears an
uproar back at th’ cabin.

“Now, somebody has gone and raised ——” snorts Magpie. “Them is
natcherally quiet folks, Ike, and not given to loud nor unseemly
noises, so there must be uh good reason. Mebby that danged badger’s
got away.”

“More likely th’ doc’s hit somethin’,” I orates. “Mebby he mistakes
th’ perfessor’s wife fer uh tin can. She’s built thataway.”

We hikes back to camp and finds things considerable disturbed. Th’ doc
is settin’ on th’ steps of th’ cabin, wearin’ uh injured expression
and uh torn shirt. Mrs. Perfessor is limpin’ around th’ place like uh
hound pup cuttin’ circles to find uh place to lay down. Perfessor
Phinney is still settin’ there studyin’ th’ badger, which seems
considerable riled over somethin’.

“What’s th’ trouble?” asks Magpie.

“Maternal instinct!” snorts th’ doc.

“Nothing to get excited about,” wheezes th’ lady, tearin’ uh strip uh
cloth off her skirt, and cinchin’ up uh cut on her wrist. “Perhaps it
wasn’t a complete success, Doctor, but we’ll have to do it again
sooner or later. It was merely a humane act.”

“Then I’m not very strong for humanity. Hereafter I draw the line to
playing wet nurse to a grizzly.”

“We overlooked one point,” states Mrs. Perfessor, wise like. “To
remove an offspring of that age from its mother is like taking the
sunshine from the flowers or the dew from the grass. Know what I
mean?”

“She means,” states th’ doc, fingerin’ th’ long gash in his pant leg.
“She means that th’ blasted brute needs milk to prolong its young
life, and she induces me to help her let it imbibe condensed milk from
a can.”

“It was interesting to note that condensed milk did not appeal to its
palate,” remarks th’ perfessor, makin’ more notes in his book.

“My ——,” sez Magpie. “Did yuh try to feed it cold canned milk?”

“Yes, did it need warming?” asks th’ lady.

“Shore thing. They won’t eat it cold. Next time yuh wants to set th’
can on the stove fer about fifteen minutes.”

“Live and learn,” quotes th’ doc. “I knew something was wrong.”

That night Mighty Jones comes over to git somethin’ fer uh tooth ache.

“Gol’ A’mighty,” sez he. “I got to have somethin’ or lose my mind.”

“If that’s all, yuh ain’t so danged bad off,” sez Magpie. “But rather
than see yuh lose somethin’ yuh never had I’ll let yuh take our Jap
oil bottle. Rub uh li’l on th’ tooth, and she’ll be better than new.”

Mighty takes th’ bottle and goes off down th’ trail holdin’ on to his
jaw. Did yuh ever hear of Jap oil? It’s th’ concentrated essense uh
dynamite, hell’s fire and asphyxiation. It cures anything. Never knew
anybody to ask fer uh second helpin’, but it shore is uh whole
medicine chest fer uh prospector. It’s jist as good fer penumonia as
it is fer uh busted leg, and I knowed uh feller oncet who kept th’
pack-rats out of his cabin by jist pastin’ th’ label off uh bottle on
his front door. Achin’ teeth is jist uh vacation chore to that
medicine.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Th’ next mornin’ me and Magpie goes over to do uh li’l work on th’
crick, and th’ doc goes off across th’ hills with his shotgun. Th’
perfessor and th’ badger gits busy watchin’ each, other ag’in. Long
about ten o’clock we decides to drift back to camp to see how things
is progressin’.

We’re up on uh point above th’ shack where we can git uh clear view uh
th’ country, and about two hundred yards below th’ cabin we sees th’
doc. He’s doin’ uh reg’-lar Injun sneak in some bull-pines. We watches
him sorta sad like fer uh while, figgerin’ that he won’t hit what he’s
sneakin’ on, when we happens to see what he’s after. Up th’ creek
bottom comes Mighty Jones and Abe. Abe is humpin’ along about ten feet
ahead uh Mighty. Mighty seems uh heap sore at th’ bear, and anxious to
overtake him.

“Blasted ol’ ossified porkypine,” wails Magpie. “Bringin’ that
moth-eaten, alleged grizzly right over where it spoils our whole game.
Let’s git down there and stop him in th’ brush.”

We breaks down past camp. Th’ perfessor is still studyin’ th’ badger.
Mrs. Perfessor sticks her head out of th’ door and yells somethin’ at
us as we goes past, but we don’t stop—not a-tall. We’re jist passin’
th’ cabin, when:

“Blam! Blam!” goes doc’s shotgun down in th’ timber.

“Come on, Ike!” pants Magpie, stretchin’ out his long legs like uh
bull elk goin’ to water, and hurdlin’ everythin’ except the
lodge-pole. He didn’t need to waste his wind thataway. I’m with him.

We busts into uh li’l clearin’, where we first sees th’ doc doin’ his
sneak, and we runs into th’ queerest bunch uh misery I ever seen. I’ve
seen uh cougar with th’ St. Vitus dance and an ulcerated tooth, and
I’ve beheld uh jack-rabbit which was shot in th’ north end with uh
load uh rock-salt, but by th’ whisperin’ wolves, this here exhibition
makes ’em all look like uh stachoo uh peaceful moments. Right there in
th’ clearin’ is pore ol’ Abe, and he shore is adjustin’ hisself to
suit local conditions.

First he puts his head down between his front legs and does uh lot uh
contortion work that would stump uh snake. He whizzes across th’
clearin’ like uh fur pin-wheel, uncouples hisself and comes back with
his nose in th’ dirt and sorrow in his soul.

He’s jist about half-way back, and me and Magpie is standin’ there
with our jaw-bones restin’ on our chests, when:

“Bling! Bling!” goes uh six-gun.

Not knowin’ th’ angle uh them shots, we immediate and soon assumes uh
reclinin position.

Mebby them shots was uh heap opportune, cause if we hadn’t uh laid
down of our own accord, ol’ Abe shore would have spread us some.

He didn’t seem to pay no attention to them shots, but somethin’ in his
carcass seems to say, “Go east, ol’ bear, go east,” and Abie shore
heeds th’ summons, and hurries right across us.

He plants one foot on th’ part uh my carcass where uh civilized man
wears his rear collar button, and his long toe-nails seems to shake
dice all th’ way down my vertebray.

We arises too late to see him leave, but he’s shore pointed toward our
happy home.

“Abie seems to have hit his second childhood,” yawns Magpie. “I’d ——”

“Did I hit it?” yells uh voice across th’ clearin’, and there stands
th’ doc.

He shore is uh sight. He sets there, hangin’ onto uh tree, and tries
to watch four directions to oncet. His hat is gone along with uh lot
of his clothes, and his respect as uh big game hunter seems to leak
out of every pore.

“There was two,” he wails. “I shot one, and before I could see whether
I had killed it or not, the other one walked all over me. I didn’t
know they went in flocks. I lost my gun. I wonder if I hit it?”

“You did,” states uh voice behind us, and there stands Mighty Jones.
He’s standin’ sorta bent forward at th’ waist line, while one hand
explores th’ rear of his pants.

“Did I hit it?” asks th’ Doc, ag’in, sorta eager like, and Mighty
replies more in sorrow than in anger:

“You shore did. Both loads, dad bust yore soul—and me without no
drawers on. I tries to smear yuh with my six-gun, but finds that all
I’m shootin’ at is yore hat and part uh yore shirt on uh bush.”

“Say, Mighty,” sez Magpie, gittin’ around on th’ windward side of th’
ol’ jasper, “you must uh took uh bath in that Jap oil. You shore are
odoriferous, ol’-timer. Whew!”

“It slopped uh li’l,” sez Mighty. Abe was ailin’ somethin’ awful over
in that ol’ prospect, and I figgers that th’ doc would relieve him uh
heap if I brings him over. I reads th’ epitaph on that bottle and it
orates that it’s good fer cramps.

“I tries to give some to Abe but he don’t warm up to th’ smell a-tall.
In fact he won’t even associate with me, and ambles ahead uh me all
th’ way over. Down here uh li’l ways I manages to overhaul him and
shoves th’ whole works down his blamed neck. It shore animates him uh
heap, Magpie. I’m watchin’ him go spry like and loudly off into the
brush, when all to oncet two loads uh bird-shot comes along and hives
into th’ seat uh my pants. It riles me uh heap. I’ll leave it to you
if bird-shot ain’t aggravatin’, Magpie.”

Th’ doc gits enough of th’ conversation to learn that he’s shot
Mighty, and he seems uh heap concerned. He’s still hangin’ onto that
tree, but he holds up his other hand and sez:

“No more, I’m through using a gun. Mister Jones, would you accept that
gun as a present?”

“Now, ain’t that ——?” wails Mighty. “Ain’t it, Magpie? Here I been
wantin’ uh britch loader shotgun fer years, and jist when somebody
gives me one I’ve already tied th’ danged thing around uh tree so it
won’t never shoot no more. Ain’t that cheerin’?”

“Well,” sez I, “lets go up to th’ cabin and see how things is shapin’
up there. I has uh feelin’ that all our good works is ravelin’ out.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

We gits almost to th’ cabin when we sees th’ perfessor. He’s settin’
on th’ ground near where th’ badger was tied to uh tree, but there
ain’t no sign of th’ badger, and Abe ain’t in sight.

Th’ perfessor’s black coat is split up th’ back, and his hard hat is
circlin’ his arm like uh band uh crape. There’s uh scratch th’ whole
length uh his face, but he’s still grinnin’ and tryin’ to write on one
leaf uh that li’l book. Th’ rest is some tore up and scattered.

“I was right!” he squeaks. “I told Professor Manning that the parent
bear would seek and find its young. They went away together. I had
untied the cub to take it down to the creek for a drink, when the
outraged mother came along and forcibly freed her baby. She——”

“Bang!”

From th’ inside of th’ cabin comes th’ report of uh heavy shootin’
iron, and Mrs. Perfessor spills out of th’ door, and skates her three
hundred pounds off th’ porch. She sets there and claws th’ hair out of
her eyes.

“Remarkable performance!” exclaims th’ perfessor. “She never fired a
shot before.”

“It—it—it buh—buh—busted,” she stutters, pointin’ at th’ cabin.

“Wimmin ought to let guns alone—also some men,” states Mighty, still
prospectin’ fer lead on th’ rear of his personal property.

“Gun,” snorts th’ injured lady. “It wasn’t no gun.”

“What was it, my dear?” asks th’ Perfessor.

“Milk,” she snaps. “Milk for the bear. It just got hot and blew up.”

“My ——,” gasps Magpie. “Ain’t that jist like uh woman. She forgot to
punch uh hole in th’ top of th’ can.”

“Never mind, my dear,” consoles th’ perfessor. “My contention is
proved, and we can leave at once. We’ll adjust matters with our
employees and go home.”

“What about th’ snake theory, Perfessor?” I asks.

“Do they or don’t they?” he asks, haulin’ out th’ remains uh that li’l
book.

“They don’t,” sez I. “They never have and never will.”

“At least I can point with pride to the fact that I hit something,”
remarks th’ doc with uh grin, when he gits on his burro and lights
another one uh them stinkin’ rolls. “I’m sorry I didn’t have a rifle,
I might have killed a bear.”

“If yuh can see this far, and sabe th’ direction, yuh might point with
pride to th’ fact that I can’t set down fer uh week,” orates Mighty.

“Perfessor,” sez Magpie, “would yuh mind tellin’ me jist edzactly what
competent means?”

Th’ perfessor adjusts th’ remains uh that hard hat on his peaked head,
and squints at Magpie over th’ top uh them funereal-rimmed glasses.
“Why,—er—it means, adequate or sufficient.”

“Thanks,” sez Magpie. “It shore is and we have had. _Adios._”

“It stands to reason—” begins Magpie, as th’ caravan goes off down th’
trail, with Mrs. Perfessor’s burro squeakin’ and groanin’ at th’ rear,
but Mighty ceases scratchin’ long enough to snort:

“Reason, eh? By cripes, Magpie, that’s uh fightin’ word with th’ Jones
fambly from now on and ever more. I listened to reason oncet, and look
what she done to me. I got to sneak up on my belly to dinner, and pore
ol’ Abe’s——”

“Abe,” sez Magpie, “is either uh bear angel by now or uh fugitive from
Jap oil. Here’s an extra ten dollars, Mighty. Be glad.”

“That’s shore reasonable,” sez Mighty.

                              THE END

[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the August, 1917 issue of
Adventure magazine.]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BEARLY REASONABLE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
